The speaker of the Greater Oudtshoorn Council,  Julia le Roux Krowitz,  postponed the Ordinary Council meeting that was scheduled to take place This afternoon (Monday 30 November 2020). The meeting, which was planned to start at 14:00, has been postponed until further notice. Le Roux-Krowitz said the postponement is due to the increase in Covid-19 related cases in the Garden Route and infections amongst officials at the Oudtshoorn Local Municipality. “The safety of councillors, officials and every citizen of the Greater Oudtshoorn is of utmost importance,” said Le Roux-Krowitz. Recent reports released by the Western Cape Provincial Government show a high increase of new Covid-19 infections in the Garden Route and in the Greater Oudtshoorn. A media release issued by the Western Cape Department of Health stated that the Garden Route has seen a 117% increase in new Covid-19 cases and a 96% increase in deaths over the last seven days and urged residents to remain cautious and vigilant. After recording 1 282 new cases and 25 new deaths over the past seven days, all areas in the Garden Route are of great concern,” said Nadia Ferreira, the department’s principal communication officer. “As we have seen during the first wave of infections, once community transmission is established within communities, especially in the Garden Route as a prime tourist destination, the situation can quickly deteriorate if not brought under control soon.” The Greater Oudtshoorn has experienced an increase of Covid-19 infections of 243% between 19 and 26 November 2020. Active cases during the above period have moved from 37 to 127 in a period of seven days. “We are deeply concerned of the rate of the new infections in the Greater Oudtshoorn. A number of officials also have tested positive for Covid-19 over the past week resulting in the closure of the municipal offices. We do not want to take this second wave lightly and would rather be on a safe side,” said Le Roux-Krowitz. The date of the next Council meeting will be communicated in due course to councillors and residents of the Greater Oudtshoorn.