IN 2018 Bert Lintvelt (63), a Klein Karoo cowboy from Ladismith, forged rocker Willim Welsyn (36) a unique birthday gift: a guitar-shaped braai grid. After boasting on social media with his Braaikaaster all of Willim’s fans wanted one.Without consulting Bert, Willim and his sister Zazzie B van Rooyen took 10 orders.Fed-up with working behind his computer screen, Bert accepted the challenge, stepped-up to the anvil and moved into the garage. After sleepless nights he poured his blood, sweat and tears into sculpting those first 10 mild steel Blitzkriek Braaikaasters.En toe begin die poppe dans.Bert told Willim that this thing must never rust, it must shine. It was through the test of metal and a will of iron that the blacksmith finally found his format: Stainless Steel.Since 2018 Bert became obsessed with the tuning and retuning of the Blitzkriek Braaikaaster. Every single Braaikaaster that left Bert’s hands exponentially increased the demand and pressure to deliver more.As a craftsman, his trade was a lonely one. He needed apprentices.Who was the first apprentice who could really rock ’n roll? Enter Werner van Eik (30), aka Boetie, a local Ladismith gardener who was committed to learn: Trial. Error. Polish. Grind. Weld. Rewind. Repeat.Perfection.Fast forward to 2020. Enter Werner’s cousin Lenovia van Eik (23), aka Novi, a farm girl with ambition, attitude and also committed to learn: Trial. Error. Polish. Grind. Weld. Rewind. Repeat. Perfection.Together this trio have built over 100 Stainless Steel Blitzkriek Braaikaasters. All of this, with only two grinders, one drill, one vice and one welding machine.Imagine what would be possible with an expanded production-line of raw materials, tools, employees and job security.Now’s the time to join the family. They have mastered the research and design of this proudly South African Braaikaaster, and are ready to take it to the next level. They are building new guitar-grid designs and accessories: The Stratobraaikaaster, The Blomkaaster, The Babybraai, The Braai2D2 and more. 24 September is Heritage Day with a unique crowd funding campaign being launched by the rocker Willim Welsyn (William Welfare) on Thundafund to empower three residents of Ladismith with better and more equipment, tools and resources to build the next 100 Blitzkriek Braaikaasters. For details go to: https://www.thundafund.com or http://williamwelfare.com)