Dié is een van die tal-le skilderagtige landskappe wat ’n mens sien vanaf die Swartbergpas wat Oudts­hoorn met Prins Al- bert verbind. Die foto is geneem van die gedeelte van die pas aan die suidelike hang van die Swartberge.  Foto:  Schalk le Roux The PhenomenonTAKE a moment to study a map of the Western Cape and perhaps you will notice a jewel hidden between the stark landscape of the Great Karoo and the lush forests and pristine beaches of the Garden Route. This jewel is the Klein Karoo – surrounded by the spectacular Swartberg, Outeniqua, Langeberg and Kammanassie Mountains. These sandstone andgranite mountains are the guardians that protect the heritage sheltered in the heartland of the Klein Karoo – they are sentries that guard the passes and the gateways.The GatewaysWord has spead and travellers from all over the world are visiting Oudtshoorn and the Klein Karoo to experience first-hand what had fascinated them from afar. When planning a route, travellers discover that in oder to reach ‘The Ostrich Capital of the World’ they have to travel through either a pass or a portal. It’s as if nature has decided to screen those who set foot on sacred soil and to guide them through one of these gateways as a test of endurance and perseverance. The reward is a taste of the tranquility of this little sanctuary.As early as the 18th century, traders and pioneers struggled their way through the mountains, awed by the towering cliffs and fearful of the treacherous ravines. Theirs was a Spirit of Conquest – a search for new territory and the discovery of greener pastures. These historic routes were the first gateways into the Klein Karoo. In the second millennium people from all over the world travel through these same gateways and embark on their own Journeys of Discovery.Route 62There is an aretery to be discovered on the plains and in the valleys of The Klein Karoo – a lifeline connecting the towns, the hamlets, the pit stops, the passes and the gateways and everything that is on offer between the Cape and The Lanfkloof – we call it Route 62. It meanders through Worcester, Montagu, Barrydale, Ladismith, Calitzdorp, Oudts­hoorn to De Rust , through the historic mission stations of Amalienstein and Zoar, the fruit growing and wine producing town of Ashton and Robertson, and offers access to McGregor, Wolseley and Tulbach as interesting side excursions.For most travellers, the hidden treasures of Route 62 come as a surprise. They discover Calitz-dorp is ‘The Port Capital of South Africa’ and that Ashton has ‘The Largest Hedge Maze in the World’. Driving into Montagu they discover ‘Little Switzerland’, Barrydale is home to ‘The only Peace Pagoda in South Africa’, while the Warm-waterberg Spa offers waters of healing. De Rust is ‘The Home of the Wild Geranium’ and Prince Albert ‘The Prince of the Klein Karoo’. Eventually all roads lead to Oudtshoorn, ‘The Ostrich Capital of the World’. Along the route nature lovers discover fynbos, hardy succulents and rare rock art left behind by prehistoric peoples.Motorists can stop and enjoy bird watching at the many nature reserves or, not far away, watch dolphins frolicking in the surf of the Indian Ocean. True country hospitality prevails and the traveller feels at home wherever he finds a place to unpack his bags and rest his weary head.OudtshoornCradled in the fertile Cango Valley and guarded by the majestic Swartberg and Outeniqua Mountains lies Oudtshoorn. The town is synonymous with the world’s biggest bird, the ostrich, as well as the Cango Caves, feather palaces and soaring temperatures, the cultural hub of Route 62 and since 1994, the home of the Klein Karoo Nasionale Kunstefees (abbreviated to KKNK), South Africa’s most successful national arts festival staged here annually.The modest Karoo settlement, named ‘Veldskoendorp’ in its early days, established on the Hartebees River in the 19th century, received town status in 1863 and was eventually named after the granddaughter of Baron van Reede van Oudts-hoorn, Governor of the Cape.Who would have guessed that this dusty desert dorp (town) would accidentally become a ‘gold mine’ in 1870 and that great wealth would change the little dorp into a flamboyant, cosmopolitan hub. This all due to that weird and ancient bird with its huge, beady eyes, lashes ‘to die for’ and plumes to kill for!Fashion designers all over the world were enchanted and inspired. The strange birds that lay the golden eggs or rather, grew the golden plumes, made princes out of paupers overnight!But ladies’ fashion can be a fickle partner. The feather boom collapsed and huge fortunes and feather palaces were lost when rich feather barons discovered the true meaning of ‘never put all your eggs in one basket’. Today all ostrich products are being marketed and ostrich farming is still practiced. The CP Nel Museum in Oudtshoorn reminds the visitor of the prosperity and extravagance that came with the ostrich feather boom. The exhibits portray the religious, cultural and economic lives of the people of Oudtshoorn. Beautiful Victorian ostrich feather palaces have been preserved as historical monuments and still pay tribute to an era long gone.Invitation to ‘Roads less travelled’From all corners of the globe travellers arrive to discover the magic of the Klein Karoo and its people. Oudtshoorn has become a favourite destination and Route 62 the link between the Cape of Good Hope and the Sunshine Coast.Every gateway to this town is spectacular and the mountain passes rate amongst the best in the world for their scenic beauty and contrast.Our invitation is that you choose a gateway along Route 62 and travel through the little desert along a route rich in culture and history with ancient fossils and stark scenery, where wine estates and rural farming communities bask in the African sun, a paradise for travellers and a photographer’s dream.The Gateways joining the R62 from:• The North: From Beaufort West in the Great Karoo on the N1 to N12 and R62. The Gateway: Meiringspoort cutting through the Swartberg Mountains.• The North-West: 1st Route: From Beaufort West on the N1 onto the R354 to Prince Albert and on the R328 to Oudtshoorn. The Gateway: Swartberg Pass over the Swartberg Mountains (gravel road).2nd Route: From Matjiesfontein & Laingsburg on the N1, following the R323 and R62. The Gateway: Seweweekspoort (gravel road).• The North-East: From Colesberg on the N1 via Graaff-Reinet & Willowmore and taking the the N9/R339/R341 to the N12/R62.The Gateways: Munnikspoort & Ghwarriepoort.Route 62 from Worcester to Uniondale is as far as is known the longest wine route in the world.• The West: From the N1 turn off towards Worcester on R60 and R62 – to Oudtshoorn via Robertson, Ashton and Montagu. The Gateway: Cogmanskloof and the Huisrivier Passes.• The South: From Mossel Bay on the N2 to the R328. The Gateway: Robinson Pass.• The South-West: From the coastal area to the R62. The Gateways: Cloetes Pass, Rooiberg Pass ( gravel roads), Garcia Pass, Tradouw Pass, Cogmanskloof Pass, Gysmanshoek Pass & Plattekloof Pass.The East: From Middelburg & Graaff-Reinet continue on the N9 (Aberdeen, Willowmore & Uniondale) onto N12 or R62, R339 & R341. The Gateways: Munnikspoort, Potjiesberg Pass, Uniondale Poort.• South-East: From the Garden Route N2 (Plettenberg Bay, Knysna, Sedgefield, Wilderness, N12 & George) to Oudtshoorn.The Gateways: The Outeniqua Pass, * Prince Alfred Pass & * Montagu Pass (* gravel roads).